SAMPLE
Business Auto Coverage Form - CA 00 01 03 10
Policy Amendment(s) Commercial Business Auto Coverage Form
Various provisions in this policy restrict coverage.
Read the entire policy carefully to determine rights,
duties and what is and is not covered.
Throughout this policy the words you and your refer
to the Named Insured shown in the Declarations. The
words we, us and our refer to the company providing
this insurance.

private passenger type (and for Liability Coverage any trailers you don’t own while attached to power units you own).
This
includes those autos not of the private passenger type you acquire ownership of after the
policy begins.
5.

=
OWNED AUTOS SUBJECT TO
NO-FAULT. Only those autos you own that
are required to have no-fault benefits in the
state where they are licensed or principally
garaged. This includes those autos you acquire ownership of after the policy begins
provided they are required to have no-fault
benefits in the state where they are licensed
or principally garaged.

6.

= OWNED AUTOS SUBJECT TO A
COMPULSORY UNINSURED MOTORISTS LAW. Only those autos you own that
because of the law in the state where they are
licensed or principally garaged are required to
have and cannot reject Uninsured Motorists
Coverage. This includes those autos you acquire ownership of after the policy begins
provided they are subject to the same state
uninsured motorists requirement.

7.

= SPECIFICALLY DESCRIBED AUTOS.
Only those autos described in Item Three of
the Declarations for which a premium charge
is shown (and for Liability Coverage any
trailers you don’t own while attached to any
power unit described in Item Three).

8.

= HIRED AUTOS ONLY. Only those autos you lease, hire, rent or borrow. This does
not include any auto you lease, hire, rent or
borrow from any of your employees , partners
(if you are a partnership), members (if you are
a limited liability company) or members of
their households but only while used in your
business or your personal affairs.

Other words and phrases that appear in boldface have
special meaning. Refer to Section V - Definitions.
Section I - Covered Autos

Item Two of the Declarations shows the autos that are
covered autos for each of your coverages. The following numerical symbols describe the autos that may be
covered autos. The symbols entered next to a coverage
on the Declarations designate the only autos that are
covered autos.
A. Description of Covered Auto Designation Symbols
Symbol

Description of Covered Auto Designation Symbols

1.

= ANY AUTO.

2.

= OWNED AUTOS ONLY. Only those
autos you own (and for Liability Coverage
any trailers you don’t own while attached to
power units you own). This includes those
autos you acquire ownership of after the policy begins.

3.

=

OWNED

PRIVATE

PASSENGER

AUTOS ONLY. Only the private passenger
autos you own. This includes those private
passenger autos you acquire ownership of af-

ter the policy begins.
4.

= OWNED AUTOS OTHER THAN PRIVATE PASSENGER AUTOS ONLY. Only
those autos you own that are not of the

This Form must be attached to Change Endorsement when issued after the policy is written.
One of the Fireman’s Fund Insurance Companies as named in the policy

Secretary

CA0001 3-10
Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009

President

SAMPLE

Page 1 of 13

SAMPLE
9.

= NON-OWNED AUTOS ONLY. Only
those autos you do not own, lease, hire, rent
or borrow that are used in connection with
your business. This includes autos owned by
your employees , partners (if you are a partnership), members (if you are a limited liability company) or members of their households
but only while used in your business or your
personal affairs.

19. = MOBILE EQUIPMENT SUBJECT TO
COMPULSORY OR FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OR OTHER MOTOR
VEHICLE INSURANCE LAW ONLY.
Only those autos that are land vehicles and
that would qualify under the definition of
mobile equipment under this policy if they
were not subject to a compulsory or financial
responsibility law or other motor vehicle insurance law where they are licensed or principally garaged.
B.

C.

Owned Autos You Acquire After the Policy Begins

1.

If symbols 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 19 are entered
next to a coverage in Item Two of the Declarations, then you have coverage for autos that
you acquire of the type described for the remainder of the policy period.

2.

But, if Symbol 7 is entered next to a coverage
in Item Two of the Declarations, an auto you
acquire will be a covered auto for that coverage only if:
a.

We already cover all autos that you own
for that coverage or it replaces an auto
you previously owned that had that coverage; and

b.

You tell us within 30 days after you acquire it that you want us to cover it for
that coverage.

Certain Trailers, Mobile Equipment and Temporary Substitute Autos

3.

Any auto you do not own while used with the
permission of its owner as a temporary substitute for a covered auto you own that is out
of service because of its:
a.

Breakdown;

b.

Repair;

c.

Servicing;

d.

Loss ; or

e.

Destruction.

Section II - Liability Coverage

A. Coverage
We will pay all sums an insured legally must pay
as damages because of bodily injury or property
damage to which this insurance applies, caused by
an accident and resulting from the ownership,
maintenance or use of a covered auto.
We will also pay all sums an insured legally must
pay as a covered pollution cost or expense to which
this insurance applies, caused by an accident and
resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use
of covered autos . However, we will only pay for
the covered pollution cost or expense if there is either bodily injury or property damage to which this
insurance applies that is caused by the same accident.
We have the right and duty to defend any insured
against a suit asking for such damages or a covered
pollution cost or expense . However, we have no
duty to defend any insured against a suit seeking
damages for bodily injury or property damage or a
covered pollution cost or expense to which this insurance does not apply. We may investigate and
settle any claim or suit as we consider appropriate.
Our duty to defend or settle ends when the Liability Coverage Limit of Insurance has been exhausted by payment of judgments or settlements.
1.

Who Is an Insured

If Liability Coverage is provided by this coverage
form, the following types of vehicles are also covered autos for Liability Coverage:

The following are insureds:
a.

You for any covered auto.

1.

b.

or less designed primarily for travel on public
roads.

Anyone else while using with your permission a covered auto you own, hire or
borrow except:

Mobile equipment while being carried or
towed by a covered auto.

(1) The owner or anyone else from
whom you hire or borrow a covered

2.

Trailers with a load capacity of 2,000 pounds

CA0001 3-10
Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009

SAMPLE

Page 2 of 13

SAMPLE
auto. This exception does not apply
if the covered auto is a trailer connected to a covered auto you own.

(5) All court costs taxed against the insured in any suit against the insured
we defend. However, these payments do not include attorneys’ fees
or attorneys’ expenses taxed against
the insured.

(2) Your employee if the covered auto
is owned by that employee or a
member of his or her household.

(6) All interest on the full amount of
any judgment that accrues after entry of the judgment in any suit
against the insured we defend, but
our duty to pay interest ends when
we have paid, offered to pay or deposited in court the part of the
judgment that is within our Limit
of Insurance.

(3) Someone using a covered auto while
he or she is working in a business
of selling, servicing, repairing, parking or storing autos unless that business is yours.
(4) Anyone other than your employees ,
partners (if you are a partnership),
members (if you are a limited liability company) or a lessee or borrower
or any of their employees , while
moving property to or from a covered auto.

These payments will not reduce the
Limit of Insurance.
b.

(5) A partner (if you are a partnership)
or a member (if you are a limited liability company) for a covered auto
owned by him or her or a member
of his or her household.
c.

2.

While a covered auto is away from the
state where it is licensed we will:
(1) Increase the Limit of Insurance for
Liability Coverage to meet the limits
specified by a compulsory or financial responsibility law of the jurisdiction where the covered auto is
being used. This extension does not
apply to the limit or limits specified
by any law governing motor carriers
of passengers or property.

Anyone liable for the conduct of an insured described above but only to the
extent of that liability.

Coverage Extensions
a.

Out-of-state Coverage Extensions

Supplementary Payments
We will pay for the insured:

(2) Provide the minimum amounts and
types of other coverages, such as
no-fault, required of out-of-state vehicles by the jurisdiction where the
covered auto is being used.

(1) All expenses we incur.
(2) Up to $2,000 for cost of bail bonds
(including bonds for related traffic
law violations) required because of
an accident we cover. We do not
have to furnish these bonds.
(3) The cost of bonds to release attachments in any suit against the
insured we defend, but only for bond
amounts within our Limit of Insurance.
(4) All reasonable expenses incurred by
the insured at our request, including
actual loss of earnings up to $250 a
day because of time off from work.
CA0001 3-10
Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009

We will not pay anyone more than once for
the same elements of loss because of these
extensions.
B.

Exclusions

This insurance does not apply to any of the following:
1.

SAMPLE

Expected or Intended Injury
Bodily injury or property damage expected or
intended from the standpoint of the insured.

Page 3 of 13

SAMPLE
2.

Contractual

household or domestic work performed principally in connection with a residence premises.

Liability assumed under any contract or
agreement.
But this exclusion does not apply to liability
for damages:

3.

Fellow Employee
Bodily injury to:

a.

Assumed in a contract or agreement that
is an insured contract provided the bodily
injury or property damage occurs subsequent to the execution of the contract or
agreement; or

a.

Any fellow employee of the insured arising out of and in the course of the fellow
employee’s employment or while performing duties related to the conduct of
your business; or

b.

That the insured would have in the absence of the contract or agreement.

b.

The spouse, child, parent, brother or sister of that fellow employee as a consequence of Paragraph a. above.

Workers’ Compensation
Any obligation for which the insured or the
insured’s insurer may be held liable under any
workers’ compensation, disability benefits or
unemployment compensation law or any similar law.

4.

5.

6.

Property damage to or covered pollution cost
or expense involving property owned or
transported by the insured or in the insured’s

care, custody or control. But this exclusion
does not apply to liability assumed under a
sidetrack agreement.

Employee Indemnification and Employer’s
Liability
7.

Bodily injury to:

a.

from the handling of property:

(2) Performing the duties related to the
conduct of the insured’s business; or
The spouse, child, parent, brother or sister of that employee as a consequence of
Paragraph a. above.

8.

This exclusion applies:

a.

Before it is moved from the place where
it is accepted by the insured for movement into or onto the covered auto ; or

b.

After it is moved from the covered auto
to the place where it is finally delivered
by the insured.

Movement of Property by Mechanical Device
Bodily injury or property damage resulting

from the movement of property by a mechanical device (other than a hand truck) unless the device is attached to the covered
auto .

(1) Whether the insured may be liable
as an employer or in any other capacity; and
(2) To any obligation to share damages
with or repay someone else who
must pay damages because of the
injury.

9.

But this exclusion does not apply to bodily
injury to domestic employees not entitled to
workers’ compensation benefits or to liability
assumed by the insured under an insured contract . For the purposes of the coverage form,
a domestic employee is a person engaged in
CA0001 3-10
Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009

Handling of Property
Bodily injury or property damage resulting

An employee of the insured arising out
of and in the course of:
(1) Employment by the insured; or

b.

Care, Custody or Control

SAMPLE

Operations
Bodily injury or property damage arising out

of the operation of:
a.

Any equipment listed in Paragraphs 6.b.
and 6.c. of the definition of mobile
equipment; or

b.

Machinery or equipment that is on, attached to or part of a land vehicle that
Page 4 of 13

SAMPLE
would qualify under the definition of
mobile equipment if it were not subject to
a compulsory or financial responsibility
law or other motor vehicle insurance law
where it is licensed or principally garaged.

a.

(1) Being transported or towed by,
handled or handled for movement
into, onto or from the covered auto ;

10. Completed Operations

(2) Otherwise in the course of transit by
or on behalf of the insured; or

Bodily injury or property damage arising out

of your work after that work has been completed or abandoned.

(3) Being stored, disposed of, treated or
processed in or upon the covered
auto ;

In this exclusion, your work means:
a.

Work or operations performed by you
or on your behalf; and

b.

Materials, parts or equipment furnished
in connection with such work or operations.

Your work includes warranties or representations made at any time with respect to the
fitness, quality, durability or performance of
any of the items included in Paragraph a. or
b. above.
Your work will be deemed completed at the
earliest of the following times:
(1) When all of the work called for in
your contract has been completed.
(2) When all of the work to be done at
the site has been completed if your
contract calls for work at more than
one site.
(3) When that part of the work done at
a job site has been put to its
intended use by any person or organization other than another contractor or subcontractor working on
the same project.
Work that may need service, maintenance, correction, repair or replacement,
but which is otherwise complete, will be
treated as completed.
11. Pollution
Bodily injury or property damage arising out

of the actual, alleged or threatened discharge,
dispersal, seepage, migration, release or escape
of pollutants :
CA0001 3-10
Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009

SAMPLE

That are, or that are contained in any
property that is:

b.

Before the pollutants or any property in
which the pollutants are contained are
moved from the place where they are accepted by the insured for movement into
or onto the covered auto ; or

c.

After the pollutants or any property in
which the pollutants are contained are
moved from the covered auto to the
place where they are finally delivered,
disposed of or abandoned by the
insured.

Paragraph a. above does not apply to fuels,
lubricants, fluids, exhaust gases or other similar pollutants that are needed for or result
from the normal electrical, hydraulic or mechanical functioning of the covered auto or its
parts, if:
(1) The pollutants escape, seep, migrate
or are discharged, dispersed or released directly from an auto part designed by its manufacturer to hold,
store, receive or dispose of such
pollutants ; and
(2) The bodily injury, property damage
or covered pollution cost or expense
does not arise out of the operation
of any equipment listed in Paragraphs 6.b. and 6.c. of the definition
of mobile equipment.
Paragraphs b. and c. above of this exclusion do not apply to accidents that occur
away from premises owned by or rented
to an insured with respect to pollutants
not in or upon a covered auto if:
(a) The pollutants or any property
in which the pollutants are
contained are upset, overturned
Page 5 of 13

SAMPLE
or damaged as a result of the
maintenance or use of a covered
auto ; and
(b) The discharge, dispersal, seepage, migration, release or escape
of the pollutants is caused directly by such upset, overturn
or damage.

endorsement or Underinsured Motorists Coverage
endorsement attached to this Coverage Part.
Section III - Physical Damage Coverage

A. Coverage
1.

We will pay for loss to a covered auto or its
equipment under:
a.

12. War

From any cause except:

Bodily injury or property damage arising di-

rectly or indirectly out of:
a.

War, including undeclared or civil war;

b.

Warlike action by a military force, including action in hindering or defending
against an actual or expected attack, by
any government, sovereign or other authority using military personnel or other
agents; or

c.

(1) The covered auto’s collision with
another object; or
(2) The covered auto’s overturn.
b.

(1) Fire, lightning or explosion;
(2) Theft;

Insurrection, rebellion, revolution, usurped power or action taken by governmental authority in hindering or
defending against any of these.

(3) Windstorm, hail or earthquake;
(4) Flood;
(5) Mischief or vandalism; or

Covered autos while used in any professional
or organized racing or demolition contest or
stunting activity, or while practicing for such
contest or activity. This insurance also does
not apply while that covered auto is being
prepared for such a contest or activity.

(6) The sinking, burning, collision or
derailment of any conveyance transporting the covered auto .
c.

Regardless of the number of covered autos , insureds, premiums paid, claims made or vehicles
involved in the accident , the most we will pay for
the total of all damages and covered pollution cost
or expense combined resulting from any one accident is the Limit of Insurance for Liability Coverage shown in the Declarations.
All bodily injury, property damage and covered
pollution cost or expense resulting from continuous
or repeated exposure to substantially the same
conditions will be considered as resulting from one
accident .

Collision Coverage
Caused by:

Limit of Insurance

(1) The covered auto’s collision with
another object; or
(2) The covered auto’s overturn.
2.

Towing
We will pay up to the limit shown in the
Declarations for towing and labor costs incurred each time a covered auto of the private
passenger type is disabled. However, the labor must be performed at the place of disablement.

3.

No one will be entitled to receive duplicate payments for the same elements of loss under this
coverage form and any Medical Payments Coverage endorsement, Uninsured Motorists Coverage
CA0001 3-10
Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009

Specified Causes of Loss Coverage
Caused by:

13. Racing

C.

Comprehensive Coverage

SAMPLE

Glass Breakage - Hitting a Bird or Animal Falling Objects or Missiles
If you carry Comprehensive Coverage for the
damaged covered auto , we will pay for the
following under Comprehensive Coverage:
Page 6 of 13

SAMPLE
a.

Glass breakage;

B.

b.

Loss caused by hitting a bird or animal;

Exclusions

1.

and
c.

Loss caused by falling objects or missiles.

However, you have the option of having glass
breakage caused by a covered auto’s collision
or overturn considered a loss under Collision
Coverage.
4.

We will not pay for loss caused by or resulting
from any of the following. Such loss is excluded regardless of any other cause or event
that contributes concurrently or in any sequence to the loss.
a.

(1) The explosion of any weapon employing atomic fission or fusion; or

Coverage Extensions
a.

(2) Nuclear reaction or radiation, or radioactive contamination, however
caused.

Transportation Expenses
We will pay up to $20 per day to a maximum of $600 for temporary transportation expense incurred by you because of
the total theft of a covered auto of the
private passenger type. We will pay only
for those covered autos for which you
carry either Comprehensive or Specified
Causes Of Loss Coverage. We will pay
for temporary transportation expenses
incurred during the period beginning 48
hours after the theft and ending, regardless of the policy’s expiration, when the
covered auto is returned to use or we pay
for its loss .

b.

b.

(1) Other than collision only if the
Declarations indicate that Comprehensive Coverage is provided for any
covered auto ;

(2) Warlike action by a military force,
including action in hindering or defending against an actual or expected
attack, by any government, sovereign or other authority using military personnel or other agents; or
(3) Insurrection, rebellion, revolution,
usurped power or action taken by
governmental authority in hindering
or defending against any of these.
2.

We will not pay for loss to any covered auto
while used in any professional or organized
racing or demolition contest or stunting activity, or while practicing for such contest or
activity. We will also not pay for loss to any
covered auto while that covered auto is being
prepared for such a contest or activity.

3.

We will not pay for loss due and confined to:

(2) Specified Causes Of Loss only if the
Declarations indicate that Specified
Causes Of Loss Coverage is provided for any covered auto ; or
(3) Collision only if the Declarations
indicate that Collision Coverage is
provided for any covered auto .
However, the most we will pay for any
expenses for loss of use is $20 per day, to
a maximum of $600.
CA0001 3-10
Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009

War or Military Action
(1) War, including undeclared or civil
war;

Loss of Use Expenses
For Hired Auto Physical Damage, we
will pay expenses for which an insured
becomes legally responsible to pay for
loss of use of a vehicle rented or hired
without a driver under a written rental
contract or agreement. We will pay for
loss of use expenses if caused by:

Nuclear Hazard

a.

Wear and tear, freezing, mechanical or
electrical breakdown.

b.

Blowouts, punctures or other road damage to tires.

This exclusion does not apply to such loss
resulting from the total theft of a covered
auto .
4.

SAMPLE

We will not pay for loss to any of the following:
Page 7 of 13

SAMPLE

5.

a.

Tapes, records, discs or other similar audio, visual or data electronic devices
designed for use with audio, visual or
data electronic equipment.

b.

Any device designed or used to detect
speed-measuring equipment such as radar or laser detectors and any jamming
apparatus intended to elude or disrupt
speed-measurement equipment.

a.

Permanently installed in or upon the
covered auto in a housing, opening or
other location that is not normally used
by the auto manufacturer for the installation of such equipment;

c.

Any electronic equipment, without regard to whether this equipment is permanently installed, that reproduces,
receives or transmits audio, visual or data
signals.

b.

Removable from a permanently installed
housing unit as described in Paragraph
2.a. above or is an integral part of that
equipment; or

c.

An integral part of such equipment.

d.

Any accessories used with the electronic
equipment described in Paragraph c.
above.

Exclusions 4.c. and 4.d. do not apply to
equipment designed to be operated solely by
use of the power from the auto’s electrical
system that, at the time of loss , is:
a.

Permanently installed in or upon the
covered auto ;

b.

Removable from a housing unit which is
permanently installed in or upon the
covered auto ;

c.

An integral part of the same unit housing
any electronic equipment described in
Paragraphs a. and b. above; or

d.

6.
C.

Necessary for the normal operation of
the covered auto or the monitoring of the
covered auto’s operating system.

We will not pay for loss to a covered auto due
to diminution in value.

2.

3.

An adjustment for depreciation and physical
condition will be made in determining actual
cash value in the event of a total loss .

4.

If a repair or replacement results in better
than like kind or quality, we will not pay for
the amount of the betterment.

D. Deductible
For each covered auto , our obligation to pay for,
repair, return or replace damaged or stolen property will be reduced by the applicable deductible
shown in the Declarations. Any Comprehensive
Coverage deductible shown in the Declarations
does not apply to loss caused by fire or lightning.
Section IV - Business Auto Conditions

The following conditions apply in addition to the
Common Policy Conditions:
A. Loss Conditions
1.

Limit of Insurance

1.

The most we will pay for loss in any one accident is the lesser of:
a.

The actual cash value of the damaged or
stolen property as of the time of the
loss ; or

b.

The cost of repairing or replacing the
damaged or stolen property with other
property of like kind and quality.

CA0001 3-10
Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009

$1,000 is the most we will pay for loss in any
one accident to all electronic equipment that
reproduces, receives or transmits audio, visual
or data signals which, at the time of loss , is:

SAMPLE

Appraisal for Physical Damage Loss
If you and we disagree on the amount of
loss , either may demand an appraisal of the
loss . In this event, each party will select a
competent appraiser. The two appraisers will
select a competent and impartial umpire. The
appraisers will state separately the actual cash
value and amount of loss . If they fail to agree,
they will submit their differences to the umpire. A decision agreed to by any two will be
binding. Each party will:
a.

Pay its chosen appraiser; and
Page 8 of 13

SAMPLE
b.

Bear the other expenses of the appraisal
and umpire equally.

(2) Take all reasonable steps to protect
the covered auto from further damage. Also keep a record of your
expenses for consideration in the
settlement of the claim.

If we submit to an appraisal, we will still retain our right to deny the claim.
2.

Duties in the Event of Accident, Claim, Suit
or Loss

(3) Permit us to inspect the covered
auto and records proving the loss
before its repair or disposition.

We have no duty to provide coverage under
this policy unless there has been full compliance with the following duties:
a.

In the event of accident , claim, suit or
loss , you must give us or our authorized
representative prompt notice of the accident or loss . Include:

(4) Agree to examinations under oath
at our request and give us a signed
statement of your answers.
3.

Legal Action Against Us
No one may bring a legal action against us
under this coverage form until:

(1) How, when and where the accident
or loss occurred;

a.

There has been full compliance with all
the terms of this coverage form; and

b.

Under Liability Coverage, we agree in
writing that the insured has an obligation
to pay or until the amount of that obligation has finally been determined by
judgment after trial. No one has the right
under this policy to bring us into an action to determine the insured’s liability.

(2) The insured’s name and address; and
(3) To the extent possible, the names
and addresses of any injured persons
and witnesses.
b.

Additionally, you and any other involved
insured must:
(1) Assume no obligation, make no
payment or incur no expense without our consent, except at the insured’s own cost.

4.

At our option we may:

(2) Immediately send us copies of any
request, demand, order, notice,
summons or legal paper received
concerning the claim or suit .
(3) Cooperate with us in the investigation or settlement of the claim or
defense against the suit .
(4) Authorize us to obtain medical records or other pertinent information.
(5) Submit to examination, at our expense, by physicians of our choice,
as often as we reasonably require.
c.

a.

Pay for, repair or replace damaged or
stolen property;

b.

Return the stolen property, at our expense. We will pay for any damage that
results to the auto from the theft; or

c.

Take all or any part of the damaged or
stolen property at an agreed or appraised
value.

If we pay for the loss , our payment will include the applicable sales tax for the damaged
or stolen property.
5.

If there is loss to a covered auto or its
equipment you must also do the following:
(1) Promptly notify the police if the
covered auto or any of its equipment
is stolen.

CA0001 3-10
Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009

Loss Payment - Physical Damage Coverages

SAMPLE

Transfer of Rights of Recovery Against Others to Us
If any person or organization to or for whom
we make payment under this coverage form
has rights to recover damages from another,
those rights are transferred to us. That person
or organization must do everything necessary
Page 9 of 13

SAMPLE
to secure our rights and must do nothing after
accident or loss to impair them.
B.

(1) Excess while it is connected to a
motor vehicle you do not own.

General Conditions

1.

(2) Primary while it is connected to a
covered auto you own.

Bankruptcy
Bankruptcy or insolvency of the insured or
the insured’s estate will not relieve us of any
obligations under this coverage form.

2.

a.

This coverage form;

b.

The covered auto ;

c.

Your interest in the covered auto ; or

d.

A claim under this coverage form.

Liberalization

6.

If we revise this coverage form to provide
more coverage without additional premium
charge, your policy will automatically provide
the additional coverage as of the day the revision is effective in your state.
4.

For Hired Auto Physical Damage Coverage, any covered auto you lease, hire,
rent or borrow is deemed to be a covered
auto you own. However, any auto that
is leased, hired, rented or borrowed with
a driver is not a covered auto .

c.

Regardless of the provisions of Paragraph
a. above, this coverage form’s Liability
Coverage is primary for any liability assumed under an insured contract .

d.

When this coverage form and any other
coverage form or policy covers on the
same basis, either excess or primary, we
will pay only our share. Our share is the
proportion that the Limit of Insurance
of our coverage form bears to the total
of the limits of all the coverage forms and
policies covering on the same basis.

Concealment, Misrepresentation or Fraud
This coverage form is void in any case of
fraud by you at any time as it relates to this
coverage form. It is also void if you or any
other insured, at any time, intentionally conceal or misrepresent a material fact concerning:

3.

b.

Premium Audit
a.

The estimated premium for this coverage
form is based on the exposures you told
us you would have when this policy began. We will compute the final premium
due when we determine your actual exposures. The estimated total premium
will be credited against the final premium
due and the first Named Insured will be
billed for the balance, if any. The due
date for the final premium or retrospective premium is the date shown as the
due date on the bill. If the estimated total premium exceeds the final premium
due, the first Named Insured will get a
refund.

b.

If this policy is issued for more than one
year, the premium for this coverage form
will be computed annually based on our
rates or premiums in effect at the beginning of each year of the policy.

No Benefit to Bailee - Physical Damage
Coverages
We will not recognize any assignment or grant
any coverage for the benefit of any person or
organization holding, storing or transporting
property for a fee regardless of any other provision of this coverage form.

5.

Other Insurance
a.

For any covered auto you own, this
coverage form provides primary insurance. For any covered auto you don’t
own, the insurance provided by this coverage form is excess over any other collectible insurance. However, while a
covered auto which is a trailer is connected to another vehicle, the Liability
Coverage this coverage form provides for
the trailer is:

CA0001 3-10
Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009

7.

SAMPLE

Policy Period, Coverage Territory
Under this coverage form, we cover accidents
and losses occurring:
Page 10 of 13

SAMPLE
a.

During the policy period shown in the
Declarations; and

1.

A land motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer
designed for travel on public roads; or

b.

Within the coverage territory.

2.

Any other land vehicle that is subject to a
compulsory or financial responsibility law or
other motor vehicle insurance law where it is
licensed or principally garaged.

The coverage territory is:
(1) The United States of America;
(2) The territories and possessions of
the United States of America;

However, auto does not include mobile equipment.
C.

Bodily injury means bodily injury, sickness or dis-

ease sustained by a person including death resulting from any of these.

(3) Puerto Rico;
(4) Canada; and

D. Covered pollution cost or expense means any cost
or expense arising out of:

(5) Anywhere in the world if:
(a) A covered auto of the private
passenger type is leased, hired,
rented or borrowed without a
driver for a period of 30 days
or less; and
(b) The insured’s responsibility to
pay damages is determined in a
suit on the merits, in the United
States of America, the territories and possessions of the
United States of America,
Puerto Rico or Canada or in a
settlement we agree to.
We also cover loss to, or accidents involving,
a covered auto while being transported between any of these places.
8.

Two or More Coverage Forms or Policies Issued by Us
If this coverage form and any other coverage
form or policy issued to you by us or any
company affiliated with us applies to the same
accident , the aggregate maximum Limit of
Insurance under all the coverage forms or
policies shall not exceed the highest applicable
Limit of Insurance under any one coverage
form or policy. This condition does not apply
to any coverage form or policy issued by us
or an affiliated company specifically to apply
as excess insurance over this coverage form.

1.

Any request, demand, order or statutory or
regulatory requirement that any insured or
others test for, monitor, clean up, remove,
contain, treat, detoxify or neutralize, or in any
way respond to, or assess the effects of, pollutants ; or

2.

Any claim or suit by or on behalf of a governmental authority for damages because of
testing for, monitoring, cleaning up, removing, containing, treating, detoxifying or neutralizing, or in any way responding to, or
assessing the effects of, pollutants .

Covered pollution cost or expense does not include

any cost or expense arising out of the actual, alleged or threatened discharge, dispersal, seepage,
migration, release or escape of pollutants :
a.

(1) Being transported or towed by, handled
or handled for movement into, onto or
from the covered auto ;
(2) Otherwise in the course of transit by or
on behalf of the insured; or
(3) Being stored, disposed of, treated or processed in or upon the covered auto ;
b.

Before the pollutants or any property in which
the pollutants are contained are moved from
the place where they are accepted by the
insured for movement into or onto the covered auto ; or

c.

After the pollutants or any property in which
the pollutants are contained are moved from

Section V - Definitions

A. Accident includes continuous or repeated exposure
to the same conditions resulting in bodily injury
or property damage.
B.

Auto means:

CA0001 3-10
Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009

That are, or that are contained in any property that is:

SAMPLE

Page 11 of 13

SAMPLE
the covered auto to the place where they are
finally delivered, disposed of or abandoned by
the insured.
Paragraph a. above does not apply to fuels, lubricants, fluids, exhaust gases or other similar
pollutants that are needed for or result from the
normal electrical, hydraulic or mechanical functioning of the covered auto or its parts, if:
(1) The pollutants escape, seep, migrate or
are discharged, dispersed or released directly from an auto part designed by its
manufacturer to hold, store, receive or
dispose of such pollutants ; and
(2) The bodily injury, property damage or
covered pollution cost or expense does
not arise out of the operation of any
equipment listed in Paragraph 6.b. or 6.c.
of the definition of mobile equipment.

2.

A sidetrack agreement;

3.

Any easement or license agreement, except in
connection with construction or demolition
operations on or within 50 feet of a railroad;

4.

An obligation, as required by ordinance, to
indemnify a municipality, except in connection with work for a municipality;

5.

That part of any other contract or agreement
pertaining to your business (including an indemnification of a municipality in connection
with work performed for a municipality) under which you assume the tort liability of another to pay for bodily injury or property
damage to a third party or organization. Tort
liability means a liability that would be imposed by law in the absence of any contract
or agreement.

6.

That part of any contract or agreement entered into, as part of your business, pertaining
to the rental or lease, by you or any of your
employees , of any auto . However, such contract or agreement shall not be considered an
insured contract to the extent that it obligates
you or any of your employees to pay for
property damage to any auto rented or leased
by you or any of your employees.

Paragraphs b. and c. above do not apply to
accidents that occur away from premises owned
by or rented to an insured with respect to
pollutants not in or upon a covered auto if:
(a) The pollutants or any property in
which the pollutants are contained
are upset, overturned or damaged as
a result of the maintenance or use
of a covered auto ; and

An insured contract does not include that part
of any contract or agreement:

(b) The discharge, dispersal, seepage,
migration, release or escape of the
pollutants is caused directly by such
upset, overturn or damage.
E.

a.

That indemnifies a railroad for bodily
injury or property damage arising out of
construction or demolition operations,
within 50 feet of any railroad property
and affecting any railroad bridge or trestle, tracks, roadbeds, tunnel, underpass
or crossing;

b.

That pertains to the loan, lease or rental
of an auto to you or any of your employees, if the auto is loaned, leased or
rented with a driver; or

c.

That holds a person or organization engaged in the business of transporting
property by auto for hire harmless for
your use of a covered auto over a route
or territory that person or organization
is authorized to serve by public authority.

Diminution in value means the actual or perceived

loss in market value or resale value which results
from a direct and accidental loss .
F.

Employee includes a leased worker. Employee does
not include a temporary worker.

G. Insured means any person or organization qualifying as an insured in the Who Is An Insured
provision of the applicable coverage. Except with
respect to the Limit of Insurance, the coverage afforded applies separately to each insured who is
seeking coverage or against whom a claim or suit
is brought.
H. Insured contract means:

I.

Leased worker means a person leased to you by a

A lease of premises;

labor leasing firm under an agreement between you
and the labor leasing firm to perform duties related

CA0001 3-10
Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009

Page 12 of 13

1.

SAMPLE

SAMPLE
to the conduct of your business. Leased worker
does not include a temporary worker.
J.

(3) Street cleaning;
b.

Cherry pickers and similar devices
mounted on automobile or truck chassis
and used to raise or lower workers; and

c.

Air compressors, pumps and generators,
including spraying, welding, building cleaning, geophysical exploration, lighting
or well-servicing equipment.

Loss means direct and accidental loss or damage.

K. Mobile equipment means any of the following
types of land vehicles, including any attached machinery or equipment:
1.

Bulldozers, farm machinery, forklifts and
other vehicles designed for use principally off
public roads;

2.

Vehicles maintained for use solely on or next
to premises you own or rent;

3.

Vehicles that travel on crawler treads;

4.

Vehicles, whether self-propelled or not,
maintained primarily to provide mobility to
permanently mounted:

5.

a.

Power cranes, shovels, loaders, diggers
or drills; or

b.

Road construction or resurfacing equipment such as graders, scrapers or rollers;

Vehicles not described in Paragraph 1., 2., 3.
or 4. above that are not self-propelled and are
maintained primarily to provide mobility to
permanently attached equipment of the following types:
a.

b.
6.

However, mobile equipment does not include land
vehicles that are subject to a compulsory or financial responsibility law or other motor vehicle insurance law where it is licensed or principally
garaged. Land vehicles subject to a compulsory
or financial responsibility law or other motor vehicle insurance law are considered autos .
L.

Pollutants means any solid, liquid, gaseous or

thermal irritant or contaminant, including smoke,
vapor, soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, chemicals and
waste. Waste includes materials to be recycled,
reconditioned or reclaimed.
M. Property damage means damage to or loss of use
of tangible property.
N. Suit means a civil proceeding in which:

Air compressors, pumps and generators,
including spraying, welding, building cleaning, geophysical exploration, lighting
and well-servicing equipment; or

1.

Damages because of bodily injury or property
damage ; or

2.

A covered pollution cost or expense ;

to which this insurance applies, are alleged.
Suit includes:

Cherry pickers and similar devices used
to raise or lower workers; or

a.

Vehicles not described in Paragraph 1., 2., 3.
or 4. above maintained primarily for purposes
other than the transportation of persons or
cargo. However, self-propelled vehicles with
the following types of permanently attached
equipment are not mobile equipment but will
be considered autos :

An arbitration proceeding in which such
damages or covered pollution costs or expenses
are claimed and to which the insured must
submit or does submit with our consent; or

b.

Any other alternative dispute resolution proceeding in which such damages or covered
pollution costs or expenses are claimed and to
which the insured submits with our consent.

a.

O. Temporary worker means a person who is furnished to you to substitute for a permanent employee on leave or to meet seasonal or short-term
workload conditions.

Equipment designed primarily for:
(1) Snow removal;
(2) Road maintenance, but not construction or resurfacing; or

CA0001 3-10
Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009

P.

Trailer includes semitrailer.

SAMPLE

Page 13 of 13


