0000
efgh
ijkl
Automobile Policy Booklet
from Travelers

.

DECLARATIONS PAGE
Your Name and Address
Your Auto or Trailer
Policy Period
Coverages and Amounts of Insurance
AGREEMENT
DEFINITIONS

Beginning
On Page
1
1

LIABILITY

Insuring Agreement
Supplementary Payments
Exclusions
Limit of Liability
Out of State Coverage
Financial Responsibility
Other Insurance

2
2
2
3
4
4
4

MEDICAL
PAYMENTS

Insuring Agreement
Exclusions
Limit of Liability
Other Insurance

4
5
5
5

UNINSURED
MOTORISTS

Insuring Agreement
Exclusions
Limit of Liability
Other Insurance
Arbitration

6
6
7
7
7

DAMAGE TO
YOUR AUTO

Insuring Agreement
Transportation Expenses
Exclusions
Limit of Liability
Payment of Loss
Loss Payable Clause
No Benefit to Bailee
Other Insurance
Appraisal

8
9
9
10
10
10
10
10
10

DUTIES
AFTER AN
ACCIDENT OR
LOSS

General Duties
Additional Duties for Uninsured Motorists Coverage
Additional Duties for Collision and Comprehensive
Coverages

11
11
11

GENERAL
PROVISIONS

Bankruptcy
Changes
Fraud
Legal Action Against Us
Our Right to Recover Payment
Policy Period and Territory
Termination
Transfer of your Interest in this Policy
Two or More Auto Policies

11
11
11
11
12
12
12
13
13

Edition 6 of Policy Forms 101 and LP

TOC6000

YOUR PERSONAL AUTO POLICY QUICK REFERENCE

.

PERSONAL AUTO POLICY
Travelers Property Casualty Companies
Hartford, Connecticut
(Each a Stock Insurance Company)

AGREEMENT
In return for payment of the premium and subject to all the terms of this policy, we will provide the
coverages you have selected. These are shown by premium entries in the Declarations. The Declarations is a
part of this policy.

DEFINITIONS
A. Throughout this policy, "you" and "your" refer
to:

I.

1. The "named insured" shown in the Declarations; and

"Trailer" means a vehicle designed to be pulled
by a:
1. Private passenger auto; or
2. Pickup or van.

2. The spouse if a resident of the same
household.

It also means a farm wagon or farm implement
while towed by a vehicle listed in 1. or 2. above.

B. "We", "us" and "our" refer to the Company
shown in the Declarations providing this insurance.

J. "Your covered auto" means:
1. Any vehicle shown in the Declarations.

C. For purposes of this policy, a private passenger
type auto shall be deemed to be owned by a
person if leased:
1. Under a written agreement to that person;
and
2. For a continuous period of at least 6
months.

2. Any of the following types of vehicles on
the date you become the owner:
a. a private passenger auto; or
b. a pickup or van.
This provision (J.2.) applies only if:
a. you acquire the vehicle during the
policy period;

Other words and phrases are defined. They are in
quotation marks when used.

b. you ask us to insure it within 30 days
after you become the owner; and

D. "Bodily injury" means bodily harm, sickness or
disease, including death that results.

c. with respect to a pickup or van, no
other insurance policy provides
coverage for that vehicle.

E. "Business" includes trade, profession or occupation.
F. "Family member" means a person related to
you by blood, marriage or adoption who is a
resident of your household. This includes a
ward or foster child.
G. "Occupying" means in, upon, getting in, on, out
or off.
H. "Property damage" means physical injury to,
destruction of or loss of use of tangible property.
PL-6000 3-87

Page 1 of 13

If the vehicle you acquire replaces one
shown in the Declarations, it will have the
same coverage as the vehicle it replaced.
You must ask us to insure a replacement
vehicle within 30 days only if:
a. you wish to add or continue Damage to
Your Auto Coverages; or
b. it is a pickup or van used in any "business" other than farming or ranching.

Edition 6 of Policy forms
101 and LP

If the vehicle you acquire is in addition to
any shown in the Declarations, it will have
the broadest coverage we now provide for
any vehicle shown in the Declarations.

other vehicle described in this definition
which is out of normal use because of its:

3. Any "trailer" you own.

a. breakdown;

d. loss; or

b. repair;

e. destruction.

c. servicing;

4. Any auto or "trailer" you do not own while
used as a temporary substitute for any

LIABILITY
Coverage A - Bodily In jury
Coverage B - Property Damage
INSURING AGREEMENT

SUPPLEMENTARY PAYMENTS

A. We will pay damages for "bodily injury"
(Coverage A) or "property damage" (Coverage
B) for which any "insured" becomes legally
responsible because of an auto accident.
Damages include pre-judgment interest
awarded against the "insured". We will settle or
defend, as we consider appropriate, any claim
or suit asking for these damages. In addition to
our limit of liability, we will pay all defense
costs we incur. Our duty to settle or defend
ends when our limit of liability for these
coverages has been exhausted. We have no
duty to defend any suit or settle any claim for
"bodily injury" or "property damage" not
covered under this policy.

In addition to our limit of liability, we will pay on
behalf of an "insured":
1. Up to $250 for the cost of bail bonds required because of an accident, including related traffic law violations. The accident
must result in "bodily injury" or "property
damage" covered under this policy.
2. Premiums on appeal bonds and bonds to
release attachments in any suit we defend.
3. Interest accruing after a judgment is
entered in any suit we defend. Our duty to
pay interest ends when we offer to pay that
part of the judgment which does not exceed our limit of liability for these
coverages.

B. "Insured" as used in these coverages means:
1. You or any "family member" for the ownership, maintenance or use of any auto or
"trailer".

4. Up to $50 a day for loss of earnings, but
not other income, because of attendance at
hearings or trials at our request.

2. Any person using "your covered auto".

5. Other reasonable expenses incurred at our
request.

3. For "your covered auto", any person or organization but only with respect to legal
responsibility for acts or omissions of a person for whom coverage is afforded under
these Liability Coverages.

EXCLUSIONS
A. We do not provide Liability Coverages for any
person:

4. For any auto or "trailer", other than "your
covered auto", any other person or organization but only with respect to legal
responsibility for acts or omissions of you
or any "family member" for whom coverage
is afforded under these Liability
Coverages. This provision (B.4.) applies
only if the person or organization does not
own or hire the auto or "trailer".

1. Who intentionally causes "bodily injury" or
"property damage".
2. For damage to property owned or being
transported by that person.
3. For damage to property:
a. rented to;
b. used by; or
c. in the care of;
that person.

PL-6000 3-87

Page 2 of 13

Edition 6 of Policy forms
101 and LP

This exclusion (A.3.) does not apply to
damage to a residence or private garage.

mination upon exhaustion of its limit of
liability.

4. For "bodily injury" to an employee of that
person during the course of employment.
This exclusion (A.4.) does not apply to
"bodily injury" to a domestic employee unless workers' compensation benefits are required or available for that domestic
employee.
5. For that person's liability arising out of the
ownership or operation of a vehicle while it
is being used to carry persons or property
for a fee. This exclusion (A.5.) does not
apply to a share-the-expense car pool.

A nuclear energy liability policy is a policy
issued by any of the following or their successors:
a. American Nuclear Insurers;
b. Mutual Atomic Energy Liability Underwriters; or
c. Nuclear Insurance Association of
Canada.
B. We do not provide Liability Coverages for the
ownership, maintenance or use of:
1. Any motorized vehicle having fewer than
four wheels.

6. While employed or otherwise engaged in
the "business" of:
a. selling;

d. storing; or

b. repairing;

e. parking;

2. Any vehicle, other than "your covered
auto", which is:
a. owned by you; or

c. servicing;

b. furnished or available for your regular
use.

vehicles designed for use mainly on public
highways. This includes road testing and
delivery. This exclusion (A.6.) does not
apply to the ownership, maintenance or use
of "your covered auto" by:

3. Any vehicle, other than "your covered
auto", which is:
a. owned by any "family member"; or
b. furnished or available for the regular
use of any "family member".

a. you;
b. any "family member"; or

However, this exclusion (B.3.) does not
apply to your maintenance or use of any
vehicle which is:

c. any partner, agent or employee of you
or any "family member".
7. Maintaining or using any vehicle while that
person is employed or otherwise engaged
in any "business" (other than farming or
ranching) not described in Exclusion A.6.
This exclusion (A.7.) does not apply to the
maintenance or use of a:

a. owned by a "family member"; or
b. furnished or available for the regular
use of a "family member".
LIMIT OF LIABILITY
A. Single Liability Limit

a. private passenger auto;
b. pickup or van that you own; or
c. "trailer" used with a vehicle described
in a. or b. above.
8. Using a vehicle without a reasonable belief
that that person is entitled to do so.
9. For "bodily injury" or "property damage"
for which that person:

a. "Insureds";
b. Claims made;

a. is an insured under a nuclear energy
liability policy; or

c. Vehicles or premiums shown in the
Declarations; or

b. would be an insured under a nuclear
energy liability policy but for its ter-

PL-6000 3-87

1. If the Declarations show a single limit of
liability for Coverage A and Coverage B
combined, this limit is our maximum limit
of liability for all damages for "bodily injury" and "property damage" resulting from
any one auto accident. This is the most we
will pay regardless of the number of:

Page 3 of 13

Edition 6 of Policy forms
101 and LP

d. Vehicles involved in the auto accident.
2. We will apply the limit of liability to provide any separate limits required by law for
bodily injury and property damage liability.
However, this provision (A.2.) will not
change our total limit of liability.
B. Split Liability Limits

OUT OF STATE COVERAGE
If an auto accident to which this policy applies occurs in any state or province other than the one in
which "your covered auto" is principally garaged,
we will interpret your policy for that accident as follows:
A. If the state or province has:

If the Declarations show separate limits of
liability for Coverage A and Coverage B, the
limit of liability shown in the Declarations for
each person for Coverage A is our maximum
limit of liability for all damages, including
damages for care, loss of services or death, arising out of "bodily injury" sustained by any one
person in any one auto accident. Subject to this
limit for each person, the limit of liability
shown in the Declarations for each accident
for Coverage A is our maximum limit of
liability for all damages for "bodily injury"
resulting from any one auto accident. The limit
of liability shown in the Declarations for each
accident for Coverage B is our maximum limit
of liability for all "property damage" resulting
from any one auto accident. These limits are
the most we will pay regardless of the number
of:
1. "Insureds";

1. A financial responsibility or similar law
specifying limits of liability for "bodily injury" or "property damage" higher than the
limit shown in the Declarations, your policy
will provide the higher specified limit.
2. A compulsory insurance or similar law requiring a nonresident to maintain insurance
whenever the nonresident uses a vehicle in
that state or province, your policy will provide at least the required minimum
amounts and types of coverage.
B. No one will be entitled to duplicate payments
for the same elements of loss.
FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
When this policy is certified as future proof of
financial responsibility, this policy shall comply
with the law to the extent required.
OTHER INSURANCE

2. Claims made;
3. Vehicles or premiums shown in the Declarations; or
4. Vehicles involved in the auto accident.

If there is other applicable liability insurance we
will pay only our share of the loss. Our share is the
proportion that our limit of liability bears to the
total of all applicable limits. However, any insurance we provide for a vehicle you do not own
shall be excess over any other collectible insurance.

MEDICAL PAYMENTS
Coverage C
INSURING AGREEMENT

B. "Insured" as used in this coverage means:

A. We will pay reasonable expenses incurred for
necessary medical and funeral services because
of "bodily injury":
1. Caused by accident; and

a. while "occupying"; or
b. as a pedestrian when struck by;
a motor vehicle designed for use mainly on
public roads or a trailer of any type.

2. Sustained by an "insured".

2. Any other person while "occupying" "your
covered auto".

We will pay only those expenses incurred
within 3 years from the date of the accident.

PL-6000 3-87

1. You or any "family member":

Page 4 of 13

Edition 6 of Policy forms
101 and LP

EXCLUSIONS

c. civil war;

We do not provide Medical Payments Coverage
for any person for "bodily injury":

d. insurrection; or
e. rebellion or revolution.

1. Sustained while "occupying" any motorized
vehicle having fewer than four wheels.

10. From or as a consequence of the following,
whether controlled or uncontrolled or however caused:

2. Sustained while "occupying" "your covered
auto" when it is being used to carry persons
or property for a fee. This exclusion (2.)
does not apply to a share-the-expense car
pool.
3. Sustained while "occupying" any vehicle located for use as a residence or premises.
4. Occurring during the course of employment if workers' compensation benefits are
required or available for the "bodily injury".
5. Sustained while "occupying", or when
struck by, any vehicle (other than "your
covered auto") which is:

a. nuclear reaction;
b. radiation; or
c. radioactive contamination.
LIMIT OF LIABILITY
A. The limit of liability shown in the Declarations
for this coverage is our maximum limit of
liability for each person injured in any one accident. This is the most we will pay regardless of
the number of:
1. "Insureds";
2. Claims made;

a. owned by you; or

3. Vehicles or premiums shown in the Declarations; or

b. furnished or available for your regular
use.

4. Vehicles involved in the accident.

6. Sustained while "occupying", or when
struck by, any vehicle (other than "your
covered auto") which is:

We will, however, double the applicable limit
of liability for you or any "family member" if
wearing a properly installed seat belt at the
time of the accident.

a. owned by any "family member"; or
b. furnished or available for the regular
use of any "family member".
However, this exclusion (6.) does not apply
to you.
7. Sustained while "occupying" a vehicle
without a reasonable belief that that person is entitled to do so.
8. Sustained while "occupying" a vehicle when it
is being used in the "business" of an "insured".
This exclusion (8.) does not apply to "bodily
injury" sustained while "occupying" a:

B. Any amounts otherwise payable for expenses
under this coverage shall be reduced by any
amounts paid or payable for the same expenses
under Coverage A or Coverage D.
C. No payment will be made unless the injured
person or that person's legal representative
agrees in writing that any payment shall be applied toward any settlement or judgment that
person receives under Coverage A or
Coverage D.

a. private passenger auto;

OTHER INSURANCE

b. pickup or van that you own; or

If there is other applicable auto medical payments
insurance we will pay only our share of the loss.
Our share is the proportion that our limit of
liability bears to the total of all applicable limits.
However, any insurance we provide with respect to
a vehicle you do not own shall be excess over any
other collectible auto insurance providing payments for medical or funeral expenses.

c. "trailer" used with a vehicle described
in a. or b. above.
9. Caused by or as a consequence of:
a. discharge of a nuclear weapon (even if
accidental);
b. war (declared or undeclared);

PL-6000 3-87

Page 5 of 13

Edition 6 of Policy forms
101 and LP

UNINSURED MOTORISTS
Coverage D
INSURING AGREEMENT

c. "your covered auto".
4. To which a bodily injury liability bond or
policy applies at the time of the accident
but the bonding or insuring company:

A. We will pay damages which an "insured" is legally entitled to recover from the owner or
operator of an "uninsured motor vehicle" because of "bodily injury":

a. denies coverage; or

1. Sustained by an "insured"; and

b. is or becomes insolvent.

2. Caused by an accident.

However, "uninsured motor vehicle" does not
include any vehicle or equipment:

The owner's or operator's liability for these
damages must arise out of the ownership, maintenance or use of the "uninsured motor
vehicle".

1. Owned by or furnished or available for the
regular use of you or any "family member".

Any judgment for damages arising out of a suit
brought without our written consent is not
binding on us.

3. Owned by any governmental unit or agency.

2. Owned or operated by a self-insurer under
any applicable motor vehicle law.

4. Operated on rails or crawler treads.

B. "Insured" as used in this coverage means:
1. You or any "family member".

5. Designed mainly for use off public roads
while not on public roads.

2. Any other person "occupying" "your
covered auto".

6. While located for use as a residence or
premises.

3. Any person for damages that person is entitled to recover because of "bodily injury"
to which this coverage applies sustained by
a person described in 1. or 2. above.
C. "Uninsured motor vehicle" means a land motor
vehicle or trailer of any type:

EXCLUSIONS
A. We do not provide Uninsured Motorists
Coverage for "bodily injury" sustained by any
person:

1. To which no bodily injury liability bond or
policy applies at the time of the accident.
2. To which a bodily injury liability bond or
policy applies at the time of the accident.
In this case its limits for bodily injury
liability must be less than the minimum
limits for bodily injury liability specified by
the financial responsibility law of the state
in which "your covered auto" is principally
garaged.
3. Which is a hit and run vehicle whose
operator or owner cannot be identified and
which hits:
a. you or any "family member";

1. While "occupying", or when struck by, any
motor vehicle owned by you or any "family
member" which is not insured for this
coverage under this policy. This includes a
trailer of any type used with that vehicle.
2. If that person or the legal representative
settles the "bodily injury" claim without our
consent.
3. While "occupying" "your covered auto"
when it is being used to carry persons or
property for a fee. This exclusion (A.3.)
does not apply to a share-the-expense car
pool.
4. Using a vehicle without a reasonable belief
that that person is entitled to do so.

b. a vehicle which you or any "family member" are "occupying"; or

PL-6000 3-87

Page 6 of 13

Edition 6 of Policy forms
101 and LP

B. This coverage shall not apply directly or indirectly to benefit any insurer or self-insurer
under any of the following or similar law:

may be legally responsible. This includes all
sums paid under Coverage A; and
2. Paid or payable because of the "bodily injury" under any of the following or similar
law:

1. workers' compensation law; or
2. disability benefits law.

a. workers' compensation law; or
LIMIT OF LIABILITY

b. disability benefits law.

A. Single Limit
If the Declarations show a single limit of liability
for Coverage D, this limit is our maximum limit
of liability for all damages for "bodily injury"
resulting from any one accident. This is the most
we will pay regardless of the number of:
1. "Insureds";
2. Claims made;
3. Vehicles or premiums shown in the Declarations; or

D. Any payment under this coverage will reduce
any amount that person is entitled to recover
for the same damages under Coverage A.
OTHER INSURANCE
If there is other applicable similar insurance we
will pay only our share of the loss. Our share is the
proportion that our limit of liability bears to the
total of all applicable limits. However, any insurance we provide with respect to a vehicle you
do not own shall be excess over any other collectible insurance.

4. Vehicles involved in the accident.
ARBITRATION

B. Split Limits
If the Declarations show separate limits of
liability for each person and each accident, the
limit of liability shown for each person for
Uninsured Motorists Coverage is our maximum
limit of liability for all damages, including
damages for care, loss of services or death, arising out of "bodily injury" sustained by any one
person in any one accident. Subject to this limit
for each person, the limit of liability shown in
the Declarations for each accident for Uninsured Motorists Coverage is our maximum limit
of liability for all damages for "bodily injury"
resulting from any one accident. These limits
are the most we will pay regardless of the number of:

A. If we and an "insured" do not agree:
1. Whether that person is legally entitled to
recover damages under this coverage; or
2. As to the amount of damages;
either party may make a written demand for arbitration. In this event, each party will select an
arbitrator. The two arbitrators will select a
third. If they cannot agree within 30 days,
either may request that selection be made by a
judge of a court having jurisdiction.
B. Each party will:
1. Pay the expenses it incurs; and
2. Bear the expenses of the third arbitrator
equally.

1. "Insureds";
2. Claims made;
3. Vehicles or premiums shown in the Declarations; or
4. Vehicles involved in the accident.
C. Any amounts otherwise payable for damages
under this coverage shall be reduced by all
sums:

C. Unless both parties agree otherwise, arbitration will take place in the county in which the
"insured" lives. Local rules of law as to procedure and evidence will apply. A decision
agreed to by two of the arbitrators will be binding as to:

1. Paid because of the "bodily injury" by or on
behalf of persons or organizations who

PL-6000 3-87

Page 7 of 13

1. Whether the "insured" is legally entitled to
recover damages; and
2. The amount of damages. This applies only
if the amount does not exceed the minimum limit for bodily injury liability
Edition 6 of Policy forms
101 and LP

specified by the financial responsibility law
of the state in which "your covered auto" is
principally garaged. If the amount exceeds
that limit, either party may demand the
right to a trial. This demand must be made
within 60 days of the arbitrators' decision.

If this demand is not made, the amount of
damages agreed to by the arbitrators will be
binding.
D. Instead of this method, we and the "insured"
may agree to use another method of arbitration.

DAMAGE TO YOUR AUTO
Coverage E - Collision
Coverage F - Comprehensive
(Other than Collision)
Coverage G - Rental Reimbursement
Coverage I - Towing and Labor Costs
INSURING AGREEMENT
A. Collision and Comprehensive (Other than Collision). We will pay for direct and accidental
loss to "your covered auto" or any "non-owned
auto", including their equipment, minus any applicable deductible shown in the Declarations.
We will pay for loss to "your covered auto"
caused by:
1. "Collision" only if the Declarations indicate
that Coverage E - Collision is provided
for that auto.
2. Other than "collision" only if the Declarations indicate that Coverage F - Comprehensive is provided for that auto.
If there is loss to a "non-owned auto", we will
provide the broadest coverage applicable to
any "your covered auto" shown in the Declarations.
B. Rental Reimbursement. When there is a loss
to one of "your covered autos" described in the
Declarations for which a specific premium
charge indicates that Coverage G - Rental
Reimbursement is afforded:
We will reimburse you for expenses you incur
to rent a substitute auto. This coverage applies
only if:
1. The auto is withdrawn from use for more
than 24 hours; and
2. The loss is caused by "collision" or covered
under Coverage F - Comprehensive of
this policy.

PL-6000 3-87

However, this coverage does not apply when
there is a total theft of the auto.
Our payment will be limited to that period of
time reasonably required to repair or replace
the auto. We will pay up to the amount per day
to a maximum amount as shown in the Declarations.
C. Towing and Labor Costs. We will pay towing
and labor costs incurred each time "your
covered auto" or any "non-owned auto" is disabled, up to the limit of liability shown in the
Declarations for Coverage I - Towing and
Labor Costs as applicable to that vehicle. If a
"non-owned auto" is disabled, we will provide
the broadest towing and labor costs coverage
applicable to any "your covered auto" shown in
the Declarations. We will only pay for labor
performed at the place of disablement.
D. "Collision" means the upset of "your covered
auto" or its impact with another vehicle or object. Loss caused by the following is considered
other than "collision":
1. Missiles or
7. Malicious mischief
falling objects;
or vandalism;
2. Fire;
8. Riot or civil
3. Theft or larceny;
commotion;
4. Explosion or
9. Contact with bird or
earthquake;
animal; or
5. Windstorm;
10. Breakage of glass.
6. Hail, water or
flood;

Page 8 of 13

If breakage of glass is caused by a "collision"
you may elect to have it considered a loss
caused by "collision".

Edition 6 of Policy forms
101 and LP

E. "Non-owned auto" means any private passenger auto, pickup, van or "trailer" not owned
by or furnished or available for the regular use
of you or any "family member" while in the custody of or being operated by you or any "family
member". However, "non-owned auto" does
not include any vehicle used as a temporary
substitute for a vehicle you own which is out of
normal use because of its:
1. Breakdown;

4. Loss; or

2. Repair;

5. Destruction.

d. civil war;
e. insurrection; or
f.

rebellion or revolution.

4. Loss to equipment designed for the
reproduction of sound. This exclusion (4.)
does not apply if the equipment is permanently installed in "your covered auto"
or any "non-owned auto".
5. Loss to tapes, records or other devices for
use with equipment designed for the
reproduction of sound.

3. Servicing;
TRANSPORTATION EXPENSES
In addition, under Coverage F we will pay up to
$15 per day, to a maximum of $450, for transportation expenses incurred by you. This applies only in
the event of the total theft of "your covered auto".
We will pay only transportation expenses incurred
during the period:
1. Beginning 48 hours after the theft; and
2. Ending when "your covered auto" is
returned to use or when we pay or offer to
pay for its loss.
EXCLUSIONS

6. Loss to a camper body or "trailer" you own
which is not shown in the Declarations.
This exclusion (6.) does not apply to a
camper body or "trailer" you:
a. acquire during the policy period; and
b. ask us to insure within 30 days after
you become the owner.
7. Loss to any "non-owned auto" or any
vehicle used as a temporary substitute for a
vehicle you own, when used by you or any
"family member" without a reasonable
belief that you or that "family member" are
entitled to do so.
8. Loss to:

We will not pay for:

a. TV antennas;

1. Loss to "your covered auto" which occurs
while it is used to carry persons or property
for a fee. This exclusion (1.) does not apply
to a share-the-expense car pool.
2. Damage due and confined to:

b. awnings or cabanas; or
c. equipment designed to create additional living facilities.
9. Loss to any of the following or their accessories:

a. wear and tear;

a. citizens band radio;

b. freezing;

b. two-way mobile radio;

c. mechanical or electrical breakdown or
failure; or

c. telephone; or

d. road damage to tires.
This exclusion (2.) does not apply if the
damage results from the total theft of "your
covered auto".
3. Loss due to or as a consequence of:
a. radioactive contamination;
b. discharge of any nuclear weapon (even
if accidental);
c. war (declared or undeclared);

PL-6000 3-87

Page 9 of 13

d. scanning monitor receiver.
This exclusion (9.) does not apply if the
equipment is permanently installed in the
opening of the dash or console of "your
covered auto" or any "non-owned auto".
This opening must be normally used by the
auto manufacturer for the installation of a
radio.
10. Loss to equipment designed or used for the
detection or location of radar.

Edition 6 of Policy forms
101 and LP

11. Loss to any "non-owned auto" being maintained or used by any person while
employed or otherwise engaged in the
"business" of:
a. selling;

d. storing; or

b. repairing;

e. parking;

c. servicing;
vehicles designed for use on public highways. This includes road testing and
delivery.
12. Loss to any "non-owned auto" being maintained or used by any person while
employed or otherwise engaged in any
"business" not described in exclusion 11.
This exclusion (12.) does not apply to the
maintenance or use by you or any "family
member" of a "non-owned auto" which is a
private passenger auto or "trailer".

LOSS PAYABLE CLAUSE
Loss or damage under this policy shall be paid, as
interest may appear, to you and the loss payee
shown in the Declarations. This insurance with
respect to the interest of the loss payee, shall not
become invalid because of your fraudulent acts or
omissions unless the loss results from your conversion, secretion or embezzlement of "your covered
auto". However, we reserve the right to cancel the
policy as permitted by policy terms and the cancellation shall terminate this agreement as to the loss
payee's interest. We will mail the loss payee written notice at least 10 days before the effective date
of cancellation.
When we pay the loss payee we shall, to the extent
of payment, be subrogated to the loss payee's
rights of recovery.
NO BENEFIT TO BAILEE

LIMIT OF LIABILITY

This insurance shall not directly or indirectly
benefit any carrier or other bailee for hire.

A. Our limit of liability for loss will be the lesser
of the:

OTHER INSURANCE

1. Actual cash value of the stolen or damaged
property; or
2. Amount necessary to repair or replace the
property with like kind and quality.
However, the most we will pay for loss to any
"non-owned auto" which is a "trailer" is $500.
B. An adjustment for depreciation and physical
condition will be made in determining actual
cash value at the time of loss.
PAYMENT OF LOSS
We may pay for loss in money or repair or replace
the damaged or stolen property. We may, at our expense, return any stolen property to:
1. You; or
2. The address shown in this policy.
If we return stolen property we will pay for any
damage resulting from the theft. We may keep all
or part of the property at an agreed or appraised
value.

If other insurance also covers the loss we will pay
only our share of the loss. Our share is the proportion that our limit of liability bears to the total of
all applicable limits. However, any insurance we
provide with respect to a "non-owned auto" or any
vehicle used as a temporary substitute for a vehicle
you own shall be excess over any other collectible
insurance.
APPRAISAL
A. If we and you do not agree on the amount of
loss, either may demand an appraisal of the
loss. In this event, each party will select a competent appraiser. The two appraisers will select
an umpire. The appraisers will state separately
the actual cash value and the amount of loss. If
they fail to agree, they will submit their differences to the umpire. A decision agreed to by
any two will be binding. Each party will:
1. Pay its chosen appraiser; and
2. Bear the expenses of the appraisal and umpire equally.
B. We do not waive any of our rights under this
policy by agreeing to an appraisal.

PL-6000 3-87

Page 10 of 13

Edition 6 of Policy forms
101 and LP

DUTIES AFTER AN ACCIDENT OR LOSS
GENERAL DUTIES
A. We must be notified promptly of how, when
and where the accident or loss happened.
Notice should also include the names and addresses of any injured persons and of any witnesses.
B. A person seeking any coverage must:
1. Cooperate with us in the investigation, settlement or defense of any claim or suit.
2. Promptly send us copies of any notices or
legal papers received in connection with
the accident or loss.
3. Submit, as often as we reasonably require:
a. to physical exams by physicians we
select. We will pay for these exams.
b. to examination under oath and subscribe the same.

ADDITIONAL DUTIES FOR UNINSURED
MOTORISTS COVERAGE
A person seeking Uninsured Motorists Coverage
must also:
1. Promptly notify the police if a hit and run
driver is involved.
2. Promptly send us copies of the legal papers
if a suit is brought.
ADDITIONAL DUTIES FOR COLLISION AND
COMPREHENSIVE COVERAGES
A person seeking coverage for Collision or Comprehensive (Other than Collision) must also:
1. Take reasonable steps after loss to protect
"your covered auto" and its equipment
from further loss. We will pay reasonable
expenses incurred to do this.
2. Promptly notify the police if "your covered
auto" is stolen.

4. Authorize us to obtain:
a. medical reports; and
b. other pertinent records.
5. Submit a proof of loss when required by us.

3. Permit us to inspect and appraise the
damaged property before its repair or disposal.

GENERAL PROVISIONS
BANKRUPTCY

FRAUD

Bankruptcy or insolvency of the "insured" shall not
relieve us of any obligations under this policy.

We do not provide coverage for any "insured" who
has made fraudulent statements or engaged in
fraudulent conduct in connection with any accident
or loss for which coverage is sought under this
policy.

CHANGES
This policy contains all the agreements between
you and us. Its terms may not be changed or waived
except by endorsement issued by us. If a change requires a premium adjustment, we will adjust the
premium as of the effective date of change according to the manuals then in use by us.
We may revise this policy form to provide more
coverage without additional premium charge. If we
do this your policy will automatically provide the
additional coverage as of the date the revision is effective in your state.

PL-6000 3-87

LEGAL ACTION AGAINST US
A. No legal action may be brought against us until
there has been full compliance with all the
terms of this policy. In addition, under the
Liability Coverages, no legal action may be
brought against us until:
1. We agree in writing that the "insured" has
an obligation to pay; or
2. The amount of that obligation has been
finally determined by judgment after trial.

Page 11 of 13

Edition 6 of Policy forms
101 and LP

B. No person or organization has any right under
this policy to bring us into any action to determine the liability of an "insured".
OUR RIGHT TO RECOVER PAYMENT
A. If we make a payment under this policy and the
person to or for whom payment was made has
a right to recover damages from another we
shall be subrogated to that right. That person
shall do:
1. Whatever is necessary to enable us to exercise our rights; and

TERMINATION
A. Cancellation. This policy may be cancelled
during the policy period as follows:
1. The named insured shown in the Declarations may cancel by:
a. returning this policy to us; or
b. giving us advance written notice of the
date cancellation is to take effect.
2. We may cancel by mailing to the named insured shown in the Declarations at the address shown there:

2. Nothing after loss to prejudice them.

a. at least 10 days notice:
(1) if cancellation is for nonpayment of
premium; or
(2) if notice is mailed during the first
60 days this policy is in effect and
this is not a continuation policy; or

However, our rights in this paragraph (A.) do
not apply, under the Damage to Your Auto
Coverages, against any person using "your
covered auto" with a reasonable belief that that
person is entitled to do so.
B. If we make a payment under this policy and the
person to or for whom payment is made
recovers damages from another, that person
shall:

b. at least 30 days notice in all other cases.
3. After this policy is in effect for 60 days, or
if this is a continuation policy, we will cancel only:
a. for nonpayment of premium; or

1. Hold in trust for us the proceeds of the
recovery; and

b. if your driver's license or that of:
(1) any driver who lives with you; or
(2) any driver who customarily uses
"your covered auto";

2. Reimburse us to the extent of our payment.
POLICY PERIOD AND TERRITORY

has been suspended or revoked. This
must have occurred:
(1) during the policy period; or
(2) since the last anniversary of the
original effective date if the policy
period is other than 1 year; or

A. This policy applies only to accidents and losses
which occur:
1. During the policy period as shown in the
Declarations; and
2. Within the policy territory.
B. The policy period, and each successive policy
period, begins and ends at 12:01 a.m. standard
time at your address.
C. The policy territory is:
1. The United States of America, its territories or possessions;
2. Puerto Rico; or
3. Canada.
This policy also applies to loss to, or accidents
involving, "your covered auto" while being
transported between their ports.

PL-6000 3-87

c. if the policy was obtained through
material misrepresentation.
4. Nonpayment of Premium. Nonpayment of
premium shall mean failure to pay any
premium or premium installment when due
whether payable directly to us or through a
premium financing plan or credit extension.
B. Termination. If we decide not to continue this
policy, we will mail notice to the named insured
shown in the Declarations at the address shown
there. Notice will be mailed at least 30 days
before the end of the policy period. If the
policy period is other than 1 year, we will have
the right not to continue it only at each anniversary of its original effective date. If that date is

Page 12 of 13

Edition 6 of Policy forms
101 and LP

the 29th, 30th, or 31st of a month, we may consider the first day of the next month to be this
anniversary.
C. Automatic Termination. If we offer to continue and you or your representative do not accept, this policy will automatically terminate
without notice of termination at the end of the
current policy period. Failure to pay the required continuation premium when due shall
mean that you have not accepted our offer.
If you obtain other insurance on "your covered
auto", any similar insurance provided by this
policy will terminate as to that auto on the effective date of the other insurance.

D. Other Termination Provisions.

1. If the law in effect in your state at the time
this policy is issued or continued:
a. requires a longer notice period;
b. requires a special form of or procedure
for giving notice; or
c. modifies any of the stated termination
reasons;
we will comply with those requirements.
2. We may deliver any notice instead of mailing it. Proof of mailing of any notice shall
be sufficient proof of notice.
3. If this policy is cancelled, you may be entitled to a premium refund. If so, we will
send you the refund. The premium refund,
if any, will be computed according to our

manuals. However, making or offering to
make the refund is not a condition of cancellation.
4. The effective date of cancellation stated in
the notice shall become the end of the
policy period.

TRANSFER OF YOUR INTEREST IN THIS
POLICY
A. Your rights and duties under this policy may

not be assigned without our written consent.
However, if a named insured shown in the Declarations dies, coverage will be provided for:
1. The surviving spouse if resident in the same
household at the time of death. Coverage applies to the spouse as if a named insured
shown in the Declarations; and
2. The legal representative of the deceased
person as if a named insured shown in the
Declarations. This applies only with respect
to the representative's legal responsibility
to maintain or use "your covered auto".
B. Coverage will only be provided until the next
anniversary of the policy's original effective
date.

TWO OR MORE AUTO POLICIES

If this policy and any other auto insurance policy issued to you by us apply to the same accident, the
maximum limit of our liability under all the policies
shall not exceed the highest applicable limit of
liability under any one policy.

This policy is signed for the member company of Travelers which is the insurer under this policy.

abcd
Wendy C. Skjerven
Corporate Secretary

Gregory C. Toczydlowski
President
Personal Insurance

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, with its permission. Copyright, Insurance Services Office, 1985

PL-6000

3-87

Page 13 of 13

Edition 6 of Policy forms
101 and LP


